Capstone Coach 1: hmm.
Capstone Coach 1: They are maybe.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay where's my little thing there Oh, I know I have to do, I have to get tickled with zoom right I keep forgetting that okay.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: yeah that screen.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't do it.
Capstone Coach 1: Should.
Capstone Coach 1: So you should you should be able to see my screen now I, I think.
Capstone Coach 1: They bring back up here's the calendar that's what I was trying to show Okay, the calendar it's April, the 13th and it's not Friday that's good.
Capstone Coach 1: Next week is the 20th the 20 and it's actually our last lecture.
Capstone Coach 1: On the 27th then many of you have already volunteered or will be volunteering to give a presentation on the 27th of your class project and i'm not expecting.
Capstone Coach 1: you're going to have something like your capstone i'm expecting that you're just going to demonstrate some knowledge of what we've been doing let's not hit the wrong button.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah there it is some knowledge of what we've been using in class and maybe you you've done a little.
Capstone Coach 1: invented something new and maybe maybe it's just an extension of one of the homework problems or something like that it's all good understand that you've been working on your capstones and preparing for finals and things like that so.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm just really excited that i'd like to hear and see what you've done and, last week we went through and looked at how your projects lined and who's going to be doing what and so forth, if you have any questions or concerns about that, let me know and we'll get back on that.
Capstone Coach 1: Anyway, so we have the lecture tonight and the focus tonight really is on time series analysis using rnn which is recurrent neural networks it's a.
Capstone Coach 1: it's a feature that's very, very strong and charisse and since we're doing charisse it wouldn't be right if we just skipped over it, and said oh forget that read it we're not going to do that we're actually going to talk about.
Capstone Coach 1: What recurrent neural networks are and and look at how you actually implement those so.
Capstone Coach 1: This is tonight the Semester project reviews, there is a some downloads here, if you look on the week 13 folder you'll see a little.
Capstone Coach 1: PowerPoint slides which i'm showing you now and, basically, this is just a.
Capstone Coach 1: more of an outline of what we're going to be talking about a lot, a lot of detail here so we're going to start off by just mentioning that there was a optional assignment for week 1112 rather.
Capstone Coach 1: And the idea, there was that you would take the template from week 12 per time series now that was a template that is based upon the traditional neural network approach to doing time series.
Capstone Coach 1: And that we call that the LP approach, which is using terraces nlp neural network approach now what we do there and we talked about this last time is you create the lags for your data.
Capstone Coach 1: The first slide the second line, the third leg, as many as you want, and then you use those as inputs to the neural network and use the neural network, then, to create a forecast based upon the lags this is similar to.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically fitting and auto a Rima not auriemma excuse me auto regressive moving average model time series models called an ar moving average model.
Capstone Coach 1: On your data in a nonlinear fashion, if you use something like psychic learn to fit a otter aggressive model ar ar to model or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: that's something like a regression approach, where you are Mina your coefficients that you get for the eight or one, and they are two terms the lag terms are based upon minimizing.
Capstone Coach 1: The some of squares or maximizing the lack likelihood equation for that particular model.
Capstone Coach 1: This approach that we're talking about with charisse basically uses a neural network, which is a more of a non parametric approach.
Capstone Coach 1: There are no necessary assumptions about how much and any or normality or that sort of thing.
Capstone Coach 1: we're treating the time series so basically a random series, and we have a black box, called the charisse neural network black box and we are going to train that box to make forecasts.
Capstone Coach 1: Assuming that the behavior of the series going forward is going to be similar to what happened in the past that's always sort of underlying assumption for any time series model you're assuming that the.
Capstone Coach 1: Situation that's driving the neural the time series hasn't changed dramatically, this is often wrong.
Capstone Coach 1: And, which is why some time series of time series models are not always accurate, is that you may be dealing with the situation, for example, this pandemic that we've had and must upset a lot of.
Capstone Coach 1: forecasting people because you're they're experiencing injections into their time series that they've never seen before, at least in the last you know few decades.
Capstone Coach 1: Alright, so in this, you have I list of the teams your team names and identifications are in here in case you, you want to look that up.
Capstone Coach 1: Also, you have some general comments on the right hand side, this is just more or less notes for myself and maybe for you the telling reminded me of what you're planning to work on.
Capstone Coach 1: If you change your mind about what you want to work on, please let me know via email before.
Capstone Coach 1: The 20 so before that, well before the 27th I hope of the next week or so so basically we're on 13th we have one more class and then we're going to start with our.
Capstone Coach 1: wind down we're going to start with the presentations and so you should this week and next week really be talking to your partners about how's it going.
Capstone Coach 1: hours, the project your presentation going what I would try to do is to finish up the presentation this week and then next week, use the time that is available to you to.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, go over that who's going to say what How is this going to be presented, you know that sort of thing I don't have any particular rules about this.
Capstone Coach 1: I like to see everybody engaged or involved in the presentation, but if you have if you'd rather just have one person present the project that's fine.
Capstone Coach 1: However, regardless of who presents that I would like to have some information in the presentation that says sort of a little bit about who did what what we what everybody's contributions were so that I can better assign points of scores, and things like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay well let's move on ahead, are there any questions on the projects before we move on.
Kilani, Shadi: I have a quick question Dr Jones this is killer speaking.
Capstone Coach 1: shadi.
Kilani, Shadi: Yes, sir.
Kilani, Shadi: Okay it's a good question because I didn't see any updates on the notes on the side.
Capstone Coach 1: You know there's no update ship.
Kilani, Shadi: Okay, because I sent your stuff a week.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, I do it well, I thought I replied right, I have it.
Kilani, Shadi: No, no, Sir, so.
Kilani, Shadi: that's okay whenever you get to it Thank you so much what.
Capstone Coach 1: Did I did I forget that i'm not hang on.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, I thought I remember seeing that and I did I did not reply.
Kilani, Shadi: So you acknowledge that you got it, but then I.
Capstone Coach 1: Go okay okay.
Kilani, Shadi: Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: I did I did acknowledge yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, and I did look at your screenshots and they look great they look fantastic i'll get back with you some more detailed information on that Thank you.
Kilani, Shadi: Thank you.
Okay okay.
Capstone Coach 1: anyone else.
Karis Jochen: Professor this is charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: I have a nurse okay.
Karis Jochen: Do you how long does each team have for the presentation.
Capstone Coach 1: How long let's see a good question we have in total let's say J K L and ABC TV.
Capstone Coach 1: And we have 19 or 20 presentations and we have basically two hours two and a half hours next time and then two and a half hours on May, the fourth, which would be our last was a total of five hours right, so if we take five hours and.
Capstone Coach 1: Let me do is, let me do some quick math here.
Capstone Coach 1: Times five okay so that's 300 minutes and and we divide that by about 20 we get 15 minutes, so I like 1515 minutes does that work for you cares.
Karis Jochen: For me, thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: Did I call you charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay that's kind of embarrassing all right.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, let me.
Capstone Coach 1: there's something going on here Oh, there you are okay all right okay got it.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, Jim you looks you are you look like you're in the office what's going on.
Capstone Coach 1: Are you okay.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't see your guitar.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, you don't you don't.
Know Sir.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, you don't have a MIC.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay it's okay I.
Jordan Gross: was hanging out in the actual.
Capstone Coach 1: bill here in the class.
Capstone Coach 1: Are you in the classroom as you're you're in the oh, my goodness, I should be there.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay well when we do the presentations which is coming up on the 27th I will be there Okay, I will definitely be there, and if you're interested, we can go out and get a beer afterwards, or something.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay Okay, because I know I know you got your masks ready, but I also know that some of you may be a lot of you have already have the vaccine.
Capstone Coach 1: So I think that's a passport to go down to 52 seasons or yeah there you go go that will go down to one of the places out there and city Center and have a beer so.
Capstone Coach 1: You know you're all in the everyone's invited everyone, regardless of whether you have the vaccine or not, I think you have to bring your your masks, of course, a gym is is is heavy are there tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah hobby is like the mask.
Police.
Capstone Coach 1: He gets me.
Capstone Coach 1: Voices bigger the time.
Capstone Coach 1: If he sees me without my mask I noticed that.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's okay if somebody is somebody asked to be the man, the beliefs right anyway he's good he's good i'm so happy to see people in Houston I I didn't know.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Jim Clark: Okay, well, I get my microphone on now, so I think i'm here.
Capstone Coach 1: you're good you're good yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so you have to wear a mask, even though the social distance is like 15 feet.
Jim Clark: We have a.
Jim Clark: We do over TELCO we're told what to do.
Capstone Coach 1: It said it otherwise hobby is going to be coming around and shaking you know he's not gonna be happy we got to keep our vr happy.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, Charles are you doing tonight she's here.
Swanson J, Charles: I don't find sure okay good.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see who else we got okay so yo.
Capstone Coach 1: hey.
Capstone Coach 1: you're at home, yes i'm at home and i'm doing good okay and there's David.
Capstone Coach 1: David you look like you're in in some you're kind of US foggy or something I don't know.
Purkiss, David: This is bad light.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah.
Purkiss, David: Okay behind me.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, I guess, I gotta get serious now and let's open up.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see what I have some instructions here to remind me where we are.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah I wish I wish you would download like you to download this particular file it's called charisse digits nlp rnn P, why.
Capstone Coach 1: and basically what we're going to do tonight is similar to what we did last time we're going to go over some code.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm going to talk about what is an Aryan and or recurrent neural network and how is that different from the.
Capstone Coach 1: You know the nlp, which is the Multi layer preceptor on network and and CNN, which is the convolution neural network so we're this particular code actually has examples of all four of these in the code Karen hi.
Capstone Coach 1: I see you're here you're back from Seattle, are you in Seattle okay okay okay you look like you had a great trip good.
Capstone Coach 1: You happy all right good, so this particular code summarizes the four types of models that that I we've used, we will use some new ones tonight in the analysis of images.
Capstone Coach 1: And so the first one we're going to look at is traditional multi layer preceptor on model for image analysis and here we're looking at image classification analysis.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to use those pictures of the 10 digits you know the 01234 or five pictures, you know really I hate to pester you with this, but.
Capstone Coach 1: The reason i'm doing it is because that data is online you don't have to download it, you know it's accessible directly from charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you're if you're talking to guess you can pull this data down and number two it's it's a fairly long as everybody knows about this data it's used all over the planet.
Capstone Coach 1: For examples of how to analyze images and so we'll do we're going to use it again now it's not the only example going to look at tonight, but it is the only image example we're going to look at tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: And so we'll look at how we use nlp so multi layer per soprano to do the image analysis you we've seen that before and then CNN.
Capstone Coach 1: Which is that's not the TV thing this is convolution convolution neural network this neural network good approach is traditionally what drives most image recognition programs.
Capstone Coach 1: So a CNN is a little bit different creature than an nlp and we'll look at that.
Capstone Coach 1: Then we're going to also talk about rnn for the first time recurrent neural network and how that differs from CNN and nlp and how it might be used to analyze images and then how you bring these together.
Capstone Coach 1: ordinarily the convolution neural network is brought together, either with an nlp model or an rnn model to actually improve the classification or the or what whatever it is that you're trying to predict.
Capstone Coach 1: So we'll start off with the nlp model, or what no i'm sorry first thing we're going to do is start off with these lines that you see at the top lines 171 through 190 that are in the code so.
Capstone Coach 1: Let me bring this up hey there we go.
Capstone Coach 1: This is it, yes, let me make a little larger here, so you know but easier to see, but this is lines, these are the lines 171 through 190.
Capstone Coach 1: And you'll see it looks a little odd doesn't it, you have X tm LP XTC mm X the rnn and.
Capstone Coach 1: The reason for this is because, even though these are all different variations of a careless neural network they require different input.
Capstone Coach 1: And so the the Multi layer precept tron, for example, wants the inputs to be coming in, on a vector.
Capstone Coach 1: And so that requires that if you look at the shape that it's basically the flat shape, so you have one, it would have war, the first index would be the road number, and then you have one column in there and so.
Capstone Coach 1: it's it looks like a vector as the human this this is this solution, by the way, and then we looked at it last time reduces this flattened approach, where you you take the image and you, you convoluted use use the CNN.
Capstone Coach 1: filters to reorient the or to simplify the image basically smooth it out simplified get rid of the edges, you know that kind of thing that's what you're doing in.
Capstone Coach 1: convolution neural network and then, once that's done, you have to actually you're working with a picture, so you have data that's two dimensional.
Capstone Coach 1: Or maybe three dimensional if you have color and so you have to flatten that out as a single vector and that's what's required for an nlp solution.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the CNN data that comes down is actually three dimensional.
Capstone Coach 1: And you'll see here, it has 123 in addition to the first column is the is the index of the room number, and then you have three columns after that, for the for each image.
Capstone Coach 1: You have the width of the image, you have the height of the image and then there's a third column, and now, and this data it's it's all one.
Capstone Coach 1: But you normally if you add color pictures, there would be three, this would be three dimensions and corresponding to read the blue and the Green layers in the image.
Capstone Coach 1: In a black and white image and these pictures are black and white, you only have one column there so that's why you see the.
Capstone Coach 1: what's happening here is we're going to have to take the incoming data, which is the the photograph right.
Capstone Coach 1: And we have to reshape it so we use the number be reshape command to take that incoming picture and reshape it so that it has this poor column format.
Capstone Coach 1: The first column being the row number, and then the second column would be the width of the picture than the height, the picture and then on the number one or the number three depending upon whether it's black and white or color.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see so they in our images they the width and the height of the same.
Capstone Coach 1: We call her we're using the term image size to refer to that and it's actually 28 pixels So these are kind of small images, which is another reason why these are you being used.
Capstone Coach 1: If we use real photographs would be like 2000 by 2000 and or more and and downloading that and running that takes a lot more time so that's why part of the reason why we're using this example data.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, and they are in in world instead of using four columns to or to orient ourselves in the images rnn wants this us to actually three excuse me, the first column would be the row number.
Capstone Coach 1: The second column, it says him a mid size here not really so we'll be talking about this in a moment, this actually the second column here is actually the sequence number.
Capstone Coach 1: So we're arguments are are specifically oriented towards analyzing data that are collected over time and this second column, then, is your time in Tibet index or step index, and then the third column is the size of the basically of the data.
Capstone Coach 1: Now ordinarily this if you had a traditional time series this this third column would be the number one because you just have a sequence of numbers, like stock prices, but you can use our lens to analyze multi variable.
Capstone Coach 1: Time series, this is fantastic so you have something like stock price on IBM, but then you have a bunch of other data, maybe it's some sales information that you have on on the on the company.
Capstone Coach 1: Or maybe its sales information in that sector, so this is business equipment business supplies that they sell so maybe you have some other data that relate to forecasting, the price of IBM.
Capstone Coach 1: You can bring that into a neural network, a specifically and rnn and you can use that to assist you and in forecasting, the main variable that the target variable there, so are in in as a three column format CNN has a four column format.
Capstone Coach 1: nlp and basically has a two column format, the road number and then.
Capstone Coach 1: The actual variable itself.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: If you're doing doing these analysis if you're using these neural networks on fortunately you have to make sure that the data coming in.
Capstone Coach 1: meets certain conditions, first of all, they all require the data to be nothing so they're all requiring they wouldn't care sees input number coming in it's not the number two it's floating point.
Capstone Coach 1: that's why you see this these lines, right here that say X T mo P is equal to X dlp period as type float 32.
Capstone Coach 1: And then i'm actually normalizing this, these are, since these are black and white photographs and color would be the same all of these are really basically integers that come in.
Capstone Coach 1: And those indicators are skilled between zero and 255 so we're dividing them by 255, which means we have to use floating point we can no longer store them as m m integers.
Capstone Coach 1: And they're going to be floating point numbers that go between zero to one that's plus zero plus one yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Now some people would say why don't you just keep them in senators well I didn't write charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: That I would have made that I think that should be an option but it's not an option here and cares so they want it to come in as floating point that's fine.
Capstone Coach 1: And you notice i'm doing that for all three types and making sure that they are properly, you know formatted for for charisse if you do not scale them, the way that we're doing this here.
Capstone Coach 1: you'll find that the algorithms the algorithms that are used to optimize the neural network, the, these are the ones that are used to estimate the weights in the network, they don't work as well.
Capstone Coach 1: So this little statements these statements that we see here actually a very beneficial and terms of fitting getting a good fit and the neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, if your ego things get tricky things get kind of tricky let's suppose you know we do we're going to see this, we have an image right so i'm going to want to use the convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: phil approach for images, because what that does is it'll take images can be awfully huge I mean thousands of pixels right, so you want to smooth that out.
Capstone Coach 1: And you want to shrink the image down to a smaller, more manageable size in terms of its representation, so the convolution neural network is what allows us to do that.
Capstone Coach 1: And we saw this and you'll see it again tonight on how this happens is, if you go from 28 by 28 picture down to a maybe a five by five or three by three something like that something that where the we don't have.
Capstone Coach 1: Too many weights, now we did, and we are able and terrace to work with millions of weights that can happen, but at some point, your computer's going to get tired and then it'll get sleepy in slow down right.
Capstone Coach 1: Well here's we have tonight we have rnn rnn is on is our new thing for tonight and the basic idea with rnn, and this is a new thing, by the way, and before charisse you really couldn't do this.
Capstone Coach 1: The software was not available to do this and basically what's happening here is, you can with our, then you can take virtually any neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: And you can put it, make a loop inside of a network that feeds back to the hidden layers feeds back to the hidden layers to the estimators so the weights and things like that information about what just came through the door.
Capstone Coach 1: So, in a time series you really want to know how well did we do forecasting that last observation.
Capstone Coach 1: And if we didn't do too well, maybe we're too low or too high, then I want to adjust the weights, the next time around, to compensate for that.
Capstone Coach 1: This is what our an end does so, if you're if you're trying to if you're fitting the you typical time series you use an ar auto regressive model, which means I only look at what's.
Capstone Coach 1: coming in the door, what what happened yesterday and the day before, to make my predictions for tomorrow, I do not look, I do not take into account how well we've been forecasting the data that have been coming in.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, in the arena case this is called the if I am a integrated moving average terms in a in a time series model.
Capstone Coach 1: Often you'll you just use a straight ar model otter aggressive.
Capstone Coach 1: But, in some cases it's not unusual, you will have to bring in the moving average terms and that's called the IMA or the integrated moving average terms.
Capstone Coach 1: And you saw that probably in your time series course, how you do that with a remote are in in essentially implements that particular type of model.
Capstone Coach 1: So, with an nlp approach to time series we've seen that and the memo P approach.
Capstone Coach 1: We can model any ar model we can we can fit any any order aggressive model you'd like you'd like an ar model that goes back 100 terms, no problem.
Capstone Coach 1: we'll just take a lag of 100 to the data and CERT and put that in this an input to the neural network no problem and the neural network should do a pretty fair job of forecasting any a our model.
Capstone Coach 1: Which is the most common type of model or time series anyway, if you, especially if you start allowing us to take differences and smooth out the series take trends out of the series essentially using differences.
Capstone Coach 1: However, sometimes that's still not enough and and the typical example of that would be a case where.
Capstone Coach 1: You have a time series that's coming in and looks like a zigzag zigzag it looks like a sawtooth pattern in a song or something like that up down up down up down so if the last one is up, you know this one's going to be down.
Capstone Coach 1: At the last one was down, you know the next one is going to be up that's a typical of a moving average or integrated moving average time series where the actual cyclical pattern changes dramatically over a short period of time.
Capstone Coach 1: That kind of fact that kind of a model and you could see some of this here, if you look, this is the IBM time series.
Capstone Coach 1: And the blue line here is the actual series, and you can see how it goes up and down up and down the sort of yeah there's a there's an overall trend here.
Capstone Coach 1: But then, if there is something fighting that trend it's not very smooth going up and down up and down.
Capstone Coach 1: That kind of up and down stuff usually is indicative of an integrated moving average and I am a term in the in the time series, and so, if you fit this using the auto regressive approach what you get is.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, a smoothing of this blue line and the the predictions, then, will be more or less what you might get if you were to take a pen and draw a smooth curve through this pattern that you see here.
Capstone Coach 1: If you incorporate in addition to the ar terms you incorporate the moving average terms, then you can get to better predictions, which will be better at job at forecasting these ups and downs that you see in here.
Capstone Coach 1: Still there's going to be some error in this, and anyway let's take let's go ahead and take a look at this so as I mentioned this in this little business up front is very important if you're planning to do a time series analysis for.
Capstone Coach 1: For your data you're going to be your legal need to be careful about this, especially if you are let's suppose that you already have.
Capstone Coach 1: A and nlp version of the time series which is the movie the you know the.
Capstone Coach 1: Traditional neural network or porch and you've got lags and you've got the otter aggressive lives and you're fitting that kind of a model, and now you want to go use.
Capstone Coach 1: An orientation model well you're going to have to change the data you'll have to reshape the data before you do that.
Capstone Coach 1: But don't worry we're going to look at how we do that, how we reshape the data, first of all up on the next one starting here in line number 192 is the.
Capstone Coach 1: Multi layer preceptor on model for basic now we're looking at the images, in this case now what happens with images is we're going to notice that we have three dimensions for an image with hype color.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, three dimensional data, so the sensors that are coming in, will have four dimensions to them, the first dimension will be the the actual image number.
Capstone Coach 1: The second would be the the width the third would be the height and the fourth one would be the color the color layer now in black and white there's only one color layer, however, the tensor.
Capstone Coach 1: indexes are still there, so if you want to address a particular pixel you actually have to give it a four level index and the code if you're going to do that we're not going to have to do that, but.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm just pointing out that the natural characteristic of an image is basically fourth dimensional now the ml P or nlp model multiplayer preceptor on.
Capstone Coach 1: can handle that kind of thing fairly well, but if you look at the me scoot up here to the top you'll see that it's just reshaped so instead of having four columns I now only have two columns.
Capstone Coach 1: The first column would be as you see here it's it's then reshaping if you put a minus one there, it says all of it.
Capstone Coach 1: All of it take all of it, this is the first column the index number for the role that song, you know for each of the images as a wrong number and image number.
Capstone Coach 1: So the first the first index is going to be the image index, and then the second one, will be a number I pixel number and notice that the pixels is 28 times 24 784 pixels in that in that image.
Capstone Coach 1: and basically what we're doing in an nlp approaches, we are flattening the image so it's just one strong one long list or a vector of numbers that represent that image it's not no longer two dimensional it's now one dimensional.
Capstone Coach 1: And the way this works is the first 28 numbers will be the first row in the image, the next 28 the second row and so forth, and so on, just strings strung together.
Capstone Coach 1: So this reshaping business basically takes that two dimensional photograph and strings without as one long vector now if you had.
Capstone Coach 1: If you had a three layer image, then you would have to be a little bit more careful here, and you might want to actually create a different.
Capstone Coach 1: variable for each layer red blue and green or you just might string them all out read first green second you know yellows the third or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So, if you look at the curious neural network, then, and this is going to be in lines.
Capstone Coach 1: What 197 to 209, these are the lines that define what the neural network is going to look like, and this is a traditional nlp neural network, and so we have two hidden layers.
Capstone Coach 1: At no excuse me, we only have one hidden layer in this case, and you see it says layers dense 64 I have 64 neurons and one hidden layer
Capstone Coach 1: And the word dense says that this particular hidden layer everything is connected to everything i've got 64 neurons every single one of them is connected to every single input.
Capstone Coach 1: And every single one of them every single neuron all 64 are connected to the neurons in the next layer now the next layer happens to be the output layer
Capstone Coach 1: And there are 10 neurons there because was just a classification problem each of the 10 neurons represents a probability the first one.
Capstone Coach 1: would be the probability that you get zero that you have a secret i'm the second one would be the probability that you have the number one, and then the third one number two and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: The summation of the numbers assigned to each of these 10 if you added them together will always be one exactly one, and the reason, this is achieved is by this magic function called soft soft Max it's required.
Capstone Coach 1: activation must be soft Max when you have a nominal output, that would be you know anything where you have more than three or two levels of categories that you're trying to predict.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're predicting binary then instead of soft Max you would have sigmoid si G mo ID which is basically says i'm going to give you a number between zero and one.
Capstone Coach 1: And and we're going to forecast the event.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to assign a probability to the event and the probability for the none of it is going to be one minus that number right, so we don't have to have two neurons we only put one for binary.
Capstone Coach 1: way, however, if we have a categorical situation like we do here, then we're going to have one output neuron for every every particular guy every category.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm using regularization here, it turns out that this is not a bad idea, you see, where it says, Colonel regularization.
Capstone Coach 1: equal to regular risers thought it all one, so this is the l one regularization I like the old one, because basically What it does is it penalizes.
Capstone Coach 1: The various coefficients that are the weights, in this case that have little or no impact on the output.
Capstone Coach 1: So they may there may be a large number associated with the weight because of randomness or something like that, but if it's not really being.
Capstone Coach 1: influence in the output, then this regularization will push the weight down towards zero and it'll make it easier than to get some better.
Capstone Coach 1: model fits and convergence in the network, so I like using this and you can only if you make this number one E minus the six.
Capstone Coach 1: If you make that number small enough basically you're removing regularization.
Capstone Coach 1: If you make the number of large, then all of your weights, are going to close to zero, and you, you basically going to get only one forecasts and that's the events right so everything goes, all the way to go to zero and.
Capstone Coach 1: Actually, the forecast, I think, is the non attendance is that everything goes to that, so I start usually the one thing about either the minus six.
Capstone Coach 1: Actually I made me actually started smaller like either the minus eight or something like that, because I know at that point regularization is not really kicking in.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, what I will do is, I will make it smaller and smaller and smaller until I can start to see the network getting.
Capstone Coach 1: Strange or doing unusual different things right, so if you make that one even one is the eighth and what happens is it'll you'll get a solution.
Capstone Coach 1: Now you change it to one minus seven, the solution doesn't change which says that the regularization is not really kicking in.
Capstone Coach 1: And so you keep making it smaller smaller and smaller until you could see the network fit is changing now hopefully it's changed it to the better if it's not back off remove the regularization.
Capstone Coach 1: Typically, though, I find that if you add regularization then this way, and you sort of slowly ratchet it down the larger larger values.
Capstone Coach 1: What happens is very quickly at some point you'll find a sweet spot So this has given me much better predictions right here, stop.
Capstone Coach 1: or you'll find that, as you start to put the pressure on with regularization you'll find that you get bad results, in which case you see you see your want to.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, just a comment I just put a comment right in front of Colonel here, you know I just type like I come in sign one.
Capstone Coach 1: pound sign in front of it no regularization just so you can leave it there, knowing the in your code noting that we I tried it, but it didn't work too well, so i'm going to keep leave it there for right now.
Capstone Coach 1: Now there is something, of course, the activation if it's the output it's going to be soft Max for multivariate multi normal normal calcification for binary it's going to be sigmoid and then for regular forecasts of a number you're going to just have none here I usually make this none.
Capstone Coach 1: No parenthesis just none like it is right right and they're next door, of course, the name is output.
Capstone Coach 1: Active as they have active ization for the hidden layer banana up at layer you can use.
Capstone Coach 1: That here as well, notice that i'm seeing the Colonel regular is it regularize her is none, which means that i'm not using any regularization here.
Capstone Coach 1: activation is already tell you this seems to be really fast and robust, you can change this to other things like hyperbolic tiana tan HR or you can also just use sigmoid if you want they're there, you can have a whole variety of different activations you can use and sometimes so often.
Capstone Coach 1: The regularization the solution, you get is influenced by that activation that you're using and so you might you sometimes play without a bit as well.
Karen Fireman: Dr Jones it's Karen can I see what.
Capstone Coach 1: Sure sure.
Karen Fireman: So um so I see that you use the regular Iser in the output layer and you didn't sit in the layer one is it usual that you use it in the output later I wasn't clear on that, in general, like a Mummy.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh actually it's usually the other way around, but.
Karen Fireman: Did I make a mistake of what you did.
Capstone Coach 1: No, no, no, no, no, you can do you can you can do whatever you'd like to do, and which is better well trial and error, you know you just try it here I didn't work there, I try it here doesn't work, you know.
Capstone Coach 1: travel there.
Karen Fireman: Oh.
Karen Fireman: yeah we're often you and put it in the first layer me.
Capstone Coach 1: I would usually I try the first and stay away from the up but yeah.
Karen Fireman: You do have it right now in the output layer right.
Capstone Coach 1: I do, I do.
Karen Fireman: Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: I hope I had a reason for that.
Karen Fireman: I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: we're gonna we're gonna play with this little bit and see what happens, just for the heck of it now, there are a couple of the things that you'll notice in here.
Capstone Coach 1: Coming going down you I put all the optimizer sin like Adam at a delta sgt, these are all the top auto optimizer that you have available in this kind of unnatural network, the optimizer super super critical.
Capstone Coach 1: So you definitely want to try different approaches here.
Capstone Coach 1: The learning rate in particular.
Capstone Coach 1: This is sort of like the regular eyes her that I was talking about, if you have a small learning rate like 001 here 001 something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Probably the optimizer is going to behave itself, but if you bring it up and make it too large you'll see the solutions can go to heck real quick.
Capstone Coach 1: So you want to play with these try, if you eat, this is a picture on the right hand side of where we are with the time series.
Capstone Coach 1: And the picture of the forecasts right it's really important for me to see this because if you choose the wrong optimizer that picture is going to look horrible.
Capstone Coach 1: The red dots will not fall on top of the blue last things right that's what you want, you want the red dots to track the blue line if it's not doing that.
Capstone Coach 1: And it's why i'm really off the the blue line then your optimizer is not doing its shop.
Capstone Coach 1: And one of the best optimizer is here is that at a delta, but if you don't get the urn and the learning rate tune that will it can give you a horrible horrible forecasts.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so if you see your forecasts are wild and like ugly i'm not good look at the optimizer is that for the first thing you want to look at say Okay, let me try a different optimizer let me change the learning rate, though, you can go play with that for a while okay.
Capstone Coach 1: And then under the next one you have them the model compile you have you must have a loss function normally, of course, for classification, is going to be crossing entropy.
Capstone Coach 1: elite either binomial or categorical here we have 10 different digits that we're trying to classify so it's categorical.
Capstone Coach 1: But if it was a binary would have binary cross entropy and if it's neither of those is that so regression type problem where i'm going to forecast, why then you would use mean squared error and it's actually spelled out means on a score squared on the score error okay.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the optimizer well that's The thing that I mentioned that you want to tune that try tuning that, especially if the picture forecast doesn't look good.
Capstone Coach 1: And then on metrics you can spell out the word accuracy as i've done here, and some cases, you can get away with abbreviating that ACC.
Capstone Coach 1: Now why the difference, I am not sure I think this is a version one of tensor versus a version to version one you use the abbreviation ACC and version to spell it out.
Capstone Coach 1: And I think, in most cases the version two siblings still accepts the abbreviation, but I think you're better off just to spell it out so that there's going forward void version three who knows.
Capstone Coach 1: But anyway, accuracy.
Capstone Coach 1: accuracy, by the way, is usually the same thing as last.
Capstone Coach 1: But not always so in case of cross entropy a you if it's binary cross entropy I believe you will see the accuracy and the binary cross entropy are the same.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, then let's see then we come down, and you can see what we're doing for the rest of this we are actually printing out the results and giving us a graph so let's go up here to where it says true.
Capstone Coach 1: nlp model, make sure this is true, it should say faults on your version right now.
Capstone Coach 1: does it say false.
Capstone Coach 1: I think I uploaded it is false and make sure.
Capstone Coach 1: OK change it to true and make sure the one that says CNN model, make sure that says false because I just want to run at this point, I just want to run the first one, which is the nlp model.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so this is true, and then everything else should be.
Capstone Coach 1: False.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm going to close this.
Capstone Coach 1: like that.
Capstone Coach 1: I hope I have the right Program.
Capstone Coach 1: This is, this is a fairly complicated program so.
Capstone Coach 1: Up till now, I haven't had a perfect batting record for this have nothing I get this going, and then you know it didn't work well, so Okay, so this is should say true nlp model and let's click on the little green arrow and kick it off, and we should then get the thing going.
Capstone Coach 1: And you see it's it says that we have a hidden layer with 64% ron's.
Capstone Coach 1: And 550 thousand weights, because those pictures at 784 pixels so basically what we're doing is we're fitting the traditional neural network, and we are flooding the input network network.
Capstone Coach 1: With 784 inputs, one for each of Pickles it pixels this is brute force now imagine if you had a color to the image with three layers.
Capstone Coach 1: So you got 784 times three and usually the images will have several thousand pixels and the width and the height now, so you may have a million pixels easy, and if you use this approach.
Capstone Coach 1: All bets are off because the number of inputs here is going to be huge.
Capstone Coach 1: Here we're not too bad it used to four tenths of a minute, because the, the number of pixels, this is only 784 you can see that it we stopped it at a park number 20.
Capstone Coach 1: And the size that we're using here is 128 we could make that smaller the smaller, it is the longer the the the program will run.
Capstone Coach 1: You can see in this little graph the red dots are the training data and the blue line is the validation so we're doing well pretty well with the training data.
Capstone Coach 1: But the validation data, the accuracy and the loss pretty much plateau and stay there.
Capstone Coach 1: So, if you look at the little there's a little table below the charge that says training point oh five, this is the loss validation point one, so the training losses significantly less than validation which means, what we are overfitting in the day that.
Capstone Coach 1: Most people would look at this and say oh good congratulations you fit the training data really well look at this.
Capstone Coach 1: bad guy 54 observations that were misclassified out of 60,000.
Capstone Coach 1: that's good, and so the last there's showing up as point 9% 54 out of 60,000.
Capstone Coach 1: But then misclassification for it's actually not bad 232 out of 10,000, but it is significantly different hire 2.4% than the training data, so I would say that the nlp classifier is doing well, but.
Capstone Coach 1: it's it's correctly classifying approximately 98% of the images 98% and missing about two per 2.3% of the images so.
Capstone Coach 1: So we hopefully we can do better with maybe a different approach.
Capstone Coach 1: let's go to the next one now okay let's let's turn this from true let's turn this back to false.
Capstone Coach 1: Because we're going to go to CNN right that convolution neural network model and i'm going to change that thoughts to a true.
Capstone Coach 1: And before we run it, though let's look at the code here and see how it's different first of all notice that with CNN, we have to give it an input shape.
Capstone Coach 1: Three dimensional remember I said with height and and number of channels that one says, these are black and white don't worry about it okay that that if we had color That would be a three that last number would be a three.
Capstone Coach 1: But, at any rate.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're using the convolution of basically it's a neural network filter, then this is what you would do you would start the network off using con Tu de.
Capstone Coach 1: You have the number of preceptor ons here they call it filters each filter, by the way, is actually.
Capstone Coach 1: it's like a map at the view the mats rather and this case it's a three by three three pixels by three pixels and what happens is it's laying the this three nine weights in this little three by three.
Capstone Coach 1: overlay filter and it applies the weights to each of the pixel numbers in that grid nine pixels numbers and then it it smooths them out using the certain you know algorithm.
Capstone Coach 1: And the idea here is that at this level, where you're looking at a three by three image of the you're really getting down to the pixels in the image and you want to smooth it out.
Capstone Coach 1: into one pixel so it's going to basically take those three by three by area three area and smooth it out into one pixel.
Capstone Coach 1: So the Colonel size, has it has to do with how big of a grid, do you want to use these are, since these are 28 by 28 three by three makes sense.
Capstone Coach 1: But if we had an image let's say there was 2000 by 2000 maybe would be using 300 by 300 OK.
Capstone Coach 1: So the don't think that this is typical the Colonel size here could be much larger depending upon the size of the image.
Capstone Coach 1: activation is almost always already Liu because it's quick, no, no, God calculations required notice that I have been playing here with the regularization.
Capstone Coach 1: And maybe we'll turn that on in a minute, and then, of course, you have input shape equal to that little to pull this is a typical up here, given the actual shape of the image as well as indication of the number of channels or colors that are in the image.
Capstone Coach 1: I only know of one in three but I guess if you're using thermal imaging you might have you might have more than one over there.
Capstone Coach 1: might be a five or something I don't know I haven't done anything more on the chain so.
Capstone Coach 1: So then below succumb to D we almost always have a pool it's either an average pooling or Max pooling and this me in these images the Max pooling seems to work better than the average blue.
Capstone Coach 1: And Max pooling what happens is it actually averages, or whether it looks at it says full size to it looks at a two by two window and and replaces all four pixels with only a single pixel and that would be the maximum of the four.
Capstone Coach 1: If you use the average pooling then it's going to look at those four pixels and.
Capstone Coach 1: replace them with just a single pixel that's the average of all four I did try averaging on these images, instead of Max and I didn't have any luck.
Capstone Coach 1: By the way, but so maxine to be working okay for these these particular images, I think that could be a function of black and white, where you might have some little white dots on the image, or something like that, and you want to get rid of those.
Capstone Coach 1: The.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, and then, so the pool is right, right after the COMP 2d that here's another i'm saying Okay, we smooth at one time but smooth it again.
Capstone Coach 1: Another con foodie and we have another Max pool or after that, and then you can have as many of these convolutions as you'd like.
Capstone Coach 1: to smooth out the image and to reduce the actual number of pixels that you want to work with in your s cost allocation or regression network.
Capstone Coach 1: So after you get through convolution if you're going to go to a traditional neural network, you always have to flatten that guy right there is required.
Capstone Coach 1: Because what that does is it says okay i've got some new images here, there are two two dimensional three dimensional I want to make that a single long vector.
Capstone Coach 1: A flat I was that's what the flattened bus, so it just takes all of those pixels that are that are basically organized in the kisser as a two dimensional or three dimensional tense or it puts it into a single dimension, not be vector.
Capstone Coach 1: that's what flattened us and then one with that we can push that into the traditional nlp neural network, and you can see, after that is flatten.
Capstone Coach 1: These guys, these are just nothing more than the traditional hidden layer number one 300 neurons hidden layer number two 100 neurons and of course here's the output layer the 10 neurons soft Max activation.
Capstone Coach 1: No regular nope no regularization Karen.
Capstone Coach 1: notice here that i'm using regularization on.
Capstone Coach 1: The first two hidden layers and not on the output that's this is more, this is more common.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, all right so let's turn this one on if you could make that a true up front, I would make it a false on the, on the other ones, so you don't rerun that but make it a true here and then we're just going to hit run again, and it should then crank on through and.
Capstone Coach 1: This one this is oh yeah, this is the one we're looking at the number of parameters here five over half a million right, so this actually takes some time to run.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm thinking like 20 or 30 minutes or something like that so here's what i'm going to do it's now seven o'clock I timed this perfectly let's.
Capstone Coach 1: let's take a five or 10 minute break to get something to drink and come on back and i'll show you what what happened here.
Capstone Coach 1: it's seven o'clock did I say five o'clock.
Capstone Coach 1: It says, I must have said five right okay.
Karen Fireman: it's actually what you meant.
Capstone Coach 1: it's seven o'clock okay so.
Karen Fireman: Then come back when.
Capstone Coach 1: It said okay break time.
Karen Fireman: What time are we coming back.
Karen Fireman: 710 perfect Thank you so okay.
Capstone Coach 1: My program your program probably still running so i'm going to hit the red button, because I have the output here and save it on a file, so I could open it up in my.
Capstone Coach 1: browser.
Capstone Coach 1: This is, this is what it looks like so we have 540 8978 weights.
Capstone Coach 1: The.
Capstone Coach 1: we're running this for 4020 bucks and the size of 128 I think it is.
Capstone Coach 1: And the graph actually looks pretty good, you can see the the red dots the training data are converging to a small number the blue.
Capstone Coach 1: The validation data, however, not there plateauing and also small number, so, if you look at the loss it's going to come out to be about 1% and 4%, this is the the Cross entropy error loss, the actual misclassification rate for the train date is 21 out of 60,000.035%.
Capstone Coach 1: I can get I think I can get this to zero with by making one modification, by the way, I think the training data, you can get this to fit a perfectly here.
Capstone Coach 1: What I what I believe, as I recall, you can try this at some point, if you turn on the regularization it's just if you look at line number 247.
Capstone Coach 1: I think that's commented out right now, and also line number 254 he commented out those are the regularization the l one rig utilization for the first and the second convolutions.
Capstone Coach 1: And I believe, if you turn that on you'll get a better fit.
Capstone Coach 1: But, at any rate, this is, this is not that bad really.
Capstone Coach 1: The only thing that's clear here's we do have some level of overfitting.
Capstone Coach 1: The point oh three, five, is more than 10 times less than Point six eight for the validation data, so if I was reporting this, I would say we're doing very well, here we have over 99% correct classification, we are misclassified about this point six 8% of the digits.
Capstone Coach 1: Now this is done using just the convolution followed by a traditional nlp network right.
Capstone Coach 1: Now now we're going to go to rnn and so i'm going to put this off the screen for a moment here, and you may be still running that that's okay let's let's change this from true to false.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to go to the number three.
Capstone Coach 1: And number three is the recurrent neural network let's see it says fault right now let's make that a true don't don't run it just yet, but.
Capstone Coach 1: We will, in just a moment let's talk about what's going on in here, first of all, there is no convolution so we're going to this, this is similar to.
Capstone Coach 1: The nlp network, there is no smoothing of the images or anything like that, however, instead of bringing the images in as a three dimensional row width and height.
Capstone Coach 1: Sorry row and vector it's basically in the LP solution, the data come in as a single long vector 784 I think it is pixels in one long vector.
Capstone Coach 1: In this case, in the rnn case it accepts it in as two dimensional and and what are in really think so the way rnn is going to act here it thinks that the width dimension is actually time.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: This is not normally done with images, but we're going to do with anyway to illustrate how rnn works.
Capstone Coach 1: It accepts two dimensional data, where the first dimension is time and the or step and or sequence, and the second dimension is the the actual data itself.
Capstone Coach 1: It could be one column, it could be multiple columns in this case it's the height so we're using the width here as a time we're saying the first.
Capstone Coach 1: column is with one and so that's going to come in as an image one, and then we have the second one, the third and fourth and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: Now you would expect some cereal correlation here of the Jason pixels right, so if they were.
Capstone Coach 1: The line number two would be Jason line number three and you would expect those two lines would maybe have similarities, especially if they're crossing through you know white layer or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: So your image shape is important here in nlp we wouldn't have this we just have a single number.
Capstone Coach 1: notice, though, then the first layer, the first hidden layer instead of saying dense instead of saying dense for the layer description, it says simple are in n.
Capstone Coach 1: Now it turns out that there are several different kinds of rnn networks, the simple rnn is the easiest one to describe it, this is a network, where all and this particular case, the There we have one hidden layer, the first hidden layer
Capstone Coach 1: We accept inputs into that hidden layer we, as we believe those inputs have two dimensions to them, one of them being the time number one number two number three and then the other one being the actual column of.
Capstone Coach 1: That were absent and forecasting now what happens here is that the image shape then comes in, as an argument argument, excuse me, it is a required argument, right here this guy.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the units here is the number of precepts ron's in the hidden layer up here I just said it equal to 256.
Capstone Coach 1: So i'm really kind of going gung Ho on this one, putting in lots of perceptions here we're images, this is not unusual because we do have 789 I think it is pixels.
Capstone Coach 1: And so I might even use more than 256 The more I use the slower things are going to be, but this is not such so bad, the images are small drop out is an alternative to the.
Capstone Coach 1: regularization you assign a proportion to the dropout in this case it's 2% 20% point two, and they basically it says the the 20% of the weights, are going to be pushed out to zero.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm assuming basically that 20% of the weights have little or no effect so we'll take the smallest of the of the weights and push them down to zero, and work on the other ones okay so let's drop out.
Capstone Coach 1: The.
Capstone Coach 1: OK so it's very easy, then the dropout is not required, you might replace it with the regularization or nothing at all.
Capstone Coach 1: In the structure than have this little hidden layer is identical to the hidden layer that we had for dense or nlp, the only thing that's different here is the input shape.
Capstone Coach 1: As as as a tool to numbers in that tool and the in an nlp case it's just a single number input dimension.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see and then we have a dense outer output layer, and you can see here the function is soft Max again because the actual number of outputs is the shape of the the training vector there that's it's it's 10 I could have put them in there.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you see the structure for the optimization routines again.
Capstone Coach 1: you'll want to look at that.
Capstone Coach 1: And everything else is the same so let's get this Oh, by the way, so what this is our in in actually do what it does, is it.
Capstone Coach 1: Not only does he do you have the precept ron's there and it has activation on those precept ron's so all the inputs are coming into the perceptions and then they are creating an output function through activation.
Capstone Coach 1: There is a bias term and their weights involved in that what happens is the add the value of the APP to activation form from the last observation.
Capstone Coach 1: The previous observation comes is fed into the neural into the input layer here, each time, so, in addition to have it all the inputs are coming in.
Capstone Coach 1: My also get the activation from the last observation that came out so that is it's assuming then that the data are in sequence their order in time.
Capstone Coach 1: The first, the first observation is the first one, in time, the second, the second one, in time, and so forth, and so on there's an ordering here.
Capstone Coach 1: So, in the case of the stock prices, for example, you have to actually look at the order that the prices come in and you want to set them up, so that the the the.
Capstone Coach 1: latest one or the oldest one comes into the network, first, followed by the next oldest and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: You could reverse that but ordinarily your want to make your forecasts going forward, and so you put the oldest one in first and then the next and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: so simple rnn assumes that there isn't a time order or sequence order to things in the case of an image it's just the sequences Well, this is the first word, the first row, the second row, the third row and so forth in this pixels.
Capstone Coach 1: let's run this and see what how long it takes so i'm gonna hit get word meant that I set this to true yeah I did.
Capstone Coach 1: right here mm hmm line number 298 should be true, and you can see the the actual table that comes out is super simple.
Capstone Coach 1: You can see it on my right hand lower right hand side 256% ron's basically units, the number of parameters 75,000 instead of the half a million.
Capstone Coach 1: The nlp approach uses a half a million parameters or weights so But even with that it's still not not zipping along right second about 1917 seconds per epoch on my computer.
Capstone Coach 1: You can see the the validation accuracy is already at 91% the accuracy for the training data is at 90 over 90% right now so it's clicking along.
Capstone Coach 1: sorta let me show you the output that you're going to see i'm going to flip over to the sky, right here so.
Capstone Coach 1: This is what I was referring to there's only 75,000 weights in this in this rnn network, so you have fewer things that are being estimated.
Capstone Coach 1: Maybe that helps a little bit.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm going to go fast forward here to show you what's what we should come out now of course you're you're on a different type of computer your numbers may not will will very much be different.
Capstone Coach 1: Hopefully they'll be close to this.
Capstone Coach 1: The the validation accuracy that i'm getting here is 97.9%.
Capstone Coach 1: And you could see the graph showing the training deed and the melody and the validation data what's there are a little bit nicer they kind of like agree so I feel less.
Capstone Coach 1: put off by overfitting here I don't see that coming in very loudly, but if we look at this Oh, the bottom number here is the loss right so.
Capstone Coach 1: The misclassification rate on the training data is 1.5% and then on the validation data 2%.
Capstone Coach 1: It takes it took on my computer it took about 4.3 minutes to run this through now, this is not nearly as the forecasts are not as accurate as we got on the previous.
Capstone Coach 1: Network, this is the previous network, right here, this is using convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: So we with convolution we've got 21 out of 60,000 misclassified and then 68 I total misclassification 7888 89 out of 70,000 that's of course that's pretty good.
Capstone Coach 1: But you can still see some people might say, well it's overfitting personally I like that model convolution model rnn well, it does respectable job.
Capstone Coach 1: But it's not doing as well, what I like about the rnn is that you have less overfitting.
Capstone Coach 1: Going on so there's more agreement between the training solution and the validation shoes solution, but both of them are not as good as convolution right.
Capstone Coach 1: These are images combination is made for images, maybe we should do that Okay, so what i'm going to do on my computer is you can keep this running for your seat, will have a record, if you want, but for me i'm going to move ahead and i'm going to change that true to a false.
Capstone Coach 1: This is line number 298 So this is the line that says we're going run running the rnn.
Capstone Coach 1: huh okay there we go all right.
Capstone Coach 1: A line to 98.
Capstone Coach 1: let's scoot down to line number 344.
Capstone Coach 1: Line 344 well.
Capstone Coach 1: Why not put the two of them together Why not use convolution with rnn maybe we can get a better solution convolution that seems as necessary here in order to smooth out the images and get rid of some noise that might be in the images and make them more manageable smaller.
Capstone Coach 1: So what I did was.
Capstone Coach 1: And this solution you'll see that it has the convolution here and I tried to make this exactly like the other one, so I have two major convolution filters both one was 64 and both of them actually was 64.
Capstone Coach 1: nodes or preceptor ons and I think that's what.
Capstone Coach 1: I used in the convolution case, let me go back and see them.
Capstone Coach 1: Right in the convolution solution, you see, I just had to to completion layers 64 and 64 and then this was followed by the nlp layers.
Capstone Coach 1: One with 300% trans and then the second hidden layer with 100 and of course we flattened these before we went into this now what i'm doing i'm using the same convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: right here this code is exactly the same right there.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Oh.
Capstone Coach 1: Right.
Capstone Coach 1: The long lines 351 two 365 or basically the same.
Capstone Coach 1: And like I probably should have put like us little space after that so different so these lines that i'm highlighting right now, these are the convolution lines.
Capstone Coach 1: And these are coming exactly out there coming out of the other solutions CNN solution exactly the same, then what I did was instead of using pls.
Capstone Coach 1: So peel nlp rather yay Mel P, I had a neural network here with 300 and 100% ron's now i'm using rnn with 50 256 and 10 just just 251 layer with 256.
Capstone Coach 1: preceptor on set of 300.
Capstone Coach 1: notice what I had to do here and and the other solution, I had to flatten the image well if I if you flatten the image shake it just make puts it into one long string of numbers one vector.
Capstone Coach 1: So every pixel is just one one after the other, from the image.
Capstone Coach 1: But rnn doesn't want that it wants two dimensional data it wants the first column to represent the time sequence, and the second column to represent the actual data pixels so what I did was I reshaped into 25 because the image, the image that's coming out of the other.
Capstone Coach 1: The other solution, let me show you what that looks like I can bring that up here.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you looked at the convolution solution which is.
Capstone Coach 1: right here, you see that just before it gets flattened.
Capstone Coach 1: The image, the dimension or the shape of the image is five by five by 64 so that says that we went from 28 by 28 and we've now shrink the image down to five by five.
Capstone Coach 1: Each one of these convolution steps narrows or shrinks the image, a little bit.
Capstone Coach 1: The first 126 Bytes 26 what we're doing is we're getting rid of the two pixels on the edge, so that the one pixel on the edge, so one on.
Capstone Coach 1: One of the left, one on the right that's two pixels so as we went from 28 to 2626 and then we use Max pooling to divide it and a half, two and 26 gives us 13.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we did another convolution to take two more pixels away and smooth it, and then we did it divided 11 by to get 10 five.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, then the last that's where we ended, we have a five by five.
Capstone Coach 1: convoluted image smooth image five by five pixels and we have 64 of those for each image.
Capstone Coach 1: So what I did we if you're using them LP, then you have to flatten those into 16,000 1600 pixels so five times five and 64 gets to 1600 1600 pixels and then that is being fed into the dense him LP neural network, you see down here at the bottom to hidden layers 301 hundred.
Capstone Coach 1: In the case, what we're working on now where we're putting convolution together again.
Capstone Coach 1: This is set right here, so you can see that the convolution we end up with five by five by 64 and I need to shrink that to two dimensions.
Capstone Coach 1: So I took the first two dimensions and put those together that will be a total of 25 five times 525 pixels and then leave the 64 alone.
Capstone Coach 1: So i'm using the height than the width of the image to represent the sequence number so that would be like the first row, the first column.
Capstone Coach 1: second row first, second, third row so forth, and so on, so these are ordered, in a sense, first by by the row number and then it's then by the height through the new column number.
Capstone Coach 1: We could have done this, the other way or ground I could have made 60 these numbers of sequence number and then these is maybe a position number, but I think this is the one the way that makes sense for an image anyway.
Capstone Coach 1: So it says reshape i'm using a new command here the reshaped command and charisse So yes, there is a charisse reshape command and, if you look at the code.
Capstone Coach 1: right here it's super simple look at that right there reshape so that is instead of flatten using that that layers flatten.
Capstone Coach 1: Instead of using that we're using the reshape command from charisse and you just give it two numbers, they have to be calculated, they have to be exact, if they're not you'll get an error message so five times five is 25 and 64 was the last digit.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, then we go from there, we dropped directly into the rnn it's going to be happy to see that this is two dimensional.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: It actually will work just fine so let's see the finish.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, it looks like something happened.
Capstone Coach 1: yep so.
Capstone Coach 1: screw screw screw Sean down here a little bit and we'll see that.
Capstone Coach 1: It did converge.
Capstone Coach 1: that the actual solution of the number of miss classifications is not as low as when we just use convolution followed by nlp.
Capstone Coach 1: You might remember that was a total of 90 I think miss classifications here we're getting more like 150 little bit more than 150 hundred and 56 I guess or.
Capstone Coach 1: Something like that, and so, if the misclassification is here are a little bit heavier a little bit worse than the pure convolution nlp solution, but what I do like about this is.
Capstone Coach 1: Well it's a definition or a reasonable amount of time 13.5 minutes and the difference between training and validation is but it's still too large.
Capstone Coach 1: Of its large of a difference, so we might be able to adjust the solution, a bit to get those closer together and.
Capstone Coach 1: What you know what you might do here is, you could put another layer in between the the rnn layer and then, and then the output layer here.
Capstone Coach 1: You can add another hidden layer as many as you want actually you can increase the number of preset trans that are in the rnn layer notice that we're all the weights are located.
Capstone Coach 1: Before the weights were up here in the convolution go within that area but look at this right here in that first layer there is so there are a lot of weeks there, and the reason for that is because.
Capstone Coach 1: In the reshape case, we now have 25 and 64 at 25 times 64 times 256 is a big number so that's where this 82,000 comes from still have quite a few.
Capstone Coach 1: inputs that are coming into this hidden layer because of that we might want to actually try, increasing the 256 to some other value and maybe putting in a hidden layer In between there let's see how we do that, so if we go back to the code.
Capstone Coach 1: right here.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm so i'm looking at line number two 368 369 that's that's the simple rnn line so instead of a 256.
Capstone Coach 1: Well let's try 512 let's double it.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, what we're going to do is we're going to put a dense layer as another layer right in the middle right between these two, and for that I mean there are lots of ways, you could you could actually do this and i'm just going to take the output layer you see here is almost.
Capstone Coach 1: The format is almost what we want, so i'm going to copy that the output layer and i'm going to stick it right in between, and like that.
Capstone Coach 1: And instead of naming it output i'm going to name it hidden layer two.
Capstone Coach 1: like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Now activation soft Max no way that's only the soft Max activation is only for output we're going to use Arielle you here.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: For the simple layer we didn't designate the activation I think.
Capstone Coach 1: I think you can do that with RNA and you can see activation equals two or email you.
Capstone Coach 1: like that.
Capstone Coach 1: This is the activation that's going to be applied to the neurons that are in this 512 of them.
Capstone Coach 1: So look quite a few of them, so we want to use an activation it's not too time consuming this is fast one now, the number of neurons 10.
Capstone Coach 1: We ought to crank this up a little bit because we have 512 coming into this this part of the network, as we have coming up here, so I would say let's put 100 in here.
Capstone Coach 1: This is something, of course, you could play with and and see what see what happens.
Capstone Coach 1: We don't have regularization turned on in the convolution area let's do that let's let's turn on the regularization up there, like that let's copy you that Colonel regularization and let's put that.
Capstone Coach 1: In both of our hidden layers.
Capstone Coach 1: So i'm going to put that under the 512 and under writing you know, right after the activation like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, if you missed any of this it's still going to run.
Capstone Coach 1: As long as you don't have the comma day and missing at the end of the end of one of these or something like that it's still going to run and if you do have it Oh, I have an error message here uh huh I see you see the Little Red dot here line number 374.
Capstone Coach 1: that's because I have regularization set to none so I need to take that out.
Capstone Coach 1: I need to take that out like that.
Capstone Coach 1: And we should be good to go then well.
Capstone Coach 1: No let's i'm going to make this true so we run this.
Capstone Coach 1: like that.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: I see one of the things here is the sizes equal to 128.
Capstone Coach 1: week you, you know changing this can also affect the quality of the solution if you make it a smaller number not ridiculously small like a two, but if you make this may be 6432 or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: You can actually improve the the accuracy of the solution now if i'm looking at the chart on the right hand side you see how the the the points.
Capstone Coach 1: Are smooth I don't have them jumping up and around that kind of thing well if they're smooth you're probably pretty good with this number, but if they were jumping around a lot, I might make this a smaller number.
Capstone Coach 1: And then hopefully that would smooth things out, so the converge to to a good solution.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, i'm going to turn this on just click run here and see what happens so it's running.
Capstone Coach 1: I with those changes with i've added that middle layer of 100 You see, I now have 380 5000 parameters so.
Capstone Coach 1: That was because we made two big changes the biggest change instead of 256 neurons we're now five that we're now at 512 neurons on hidden layer number one.
Capstone Coach 1: And hidden layer number two is a new layer that brings in an additional 51,000 weights and so you know, basically, we have a heavier network here, and in fact it's still sitting on epoch number one, I may have messed things up here really bad.
Capstone Coach 1: we'll see if this even gets off of the park number one right.
Capstone Coach 1: Unfortunately I don't have the I don't have a a image of what's going to happen here, this is running.
Capstone Coach 1: we'll get an idea here in a second I thought it would be like one minute, maybe.
Capstone Coach 1: Up I got well Okay, so it looks it looks like it's a minute and a half for one epoch so that means with 20 bucks it's going to take about 30 minutes.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm going to let this run and while it's running we're going to talk about some other things we're going to talk go over to the PowerPoint slide here, so this is basically what we just did we.
Capstone Coach 1: were looking at the nlp model, the CNN, for this is for images and then the Orient in this was new number three is new and number four was there.
Capstone Coach 1: and hopefully got some ideas there now let's go to the next slide and I like Oh, I need to turn this on gets you so you can download it.
Capstone Coach 1: there's another program you want you'll want to download while this other programs running so if you go in the week 13 folder.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Now you can see a program and it's called time series analysis.
Capstone Coach 1: nlp and rnn So what we did with a with an image we're going to do it again if you Fuchs your patient here with me.
Capstone Coach 1: Except now we're going to look at a time series we're going to look at the stock prices.
Capstone Coach 1: So those of you that have.
Capstone Coach 1: Traditional time series data will want to see how the system.
Capstone Coach 1: turns out to be pretty easy.
Capstone Coach 1: In some some respects easier than what we just did with the images, because you, you have images you like you start with four dimensions right.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, with time series data you usually have the time column, and you have the image, you know the y value or variable maybe the X variables and that's it you don't have four dimensions, you don't have the Channel number.
Capstone Coach 1: Red blue green that kind of thing, so please go ahead and download this file time series analysis nlp or an ad copy why out of the week number 13 folder.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, if you can, this is obviously going to take about 30 minutes, so if you could go ahead and open up this other file, this is called time series analysis nlp.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm going to make it larger now, so we can see what a little bit better what's going on.
Capstone Coach 1: The nice thing one of the nice things about spider is you can be working on code, while other code is running right so.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's what we'll do here for a while.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't know whether this new solution is going to be better or worse than the old one.
Kilani, Shadi: Jones programming excellent, but in the past i've opened a second console So if I have code running, I will just open a new console and then kind of do some more Code and the second console I don't have that connection issues.
Capstone Coach 1: I mean it is so you're saying you can run to Casa.
Capstone Coach 1: Two programs, at the same time and spider.
Capstone Coach 1: Two separate programs.
Kilani, Shadi: yeah just right click and then you can set.
Capstone Coach 1: Up yeah.
Kilani, Shadi: yeah if you do.
Capstone Coach 1: come up here and say new special console or new console right.
Kilani, Shadi: I just did do new consultants the default One the one on the top.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah I think it was right here.
Kilani, Shadi: You had it So yes, there you go it's it's the first choice Newcastle.
Capstone Coach 1: not like that.
Kilani, Shadi: that's a special constant but I don't know what the difference.
Capstone Coach 1: was actually created another instance of Python right so.
Capstone Coach 1: So this is the in that case, we have the sky still running and the a Python one window and now i've got another one and, but this one is says its.
Capstone Coach 1: peak pie lab.
Kilani, Shadi: it's because you selected special console.
Kilani, Shadi: So just just new Castle new default is the top choice.
Capstone Coach 1: that's, so this is it.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah this is.
Karen Fireman: Where are you pulling this down from I can't wait till.
Capstone Coach 1: Karen is what is what.
Karen Fireman: I was wondering how you're pulling down the new console somehow when I did, and I just eliminated my console.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, what I did was here I wasn't counseled console number one right.
Karen Fireman: yeah you're right right click right click on the tab.
Karen Fireman: Oh, oh.
Capstone Coach 1: And then select.
Capstone Coach 1: select the first item, new console.
Karen Fireman: Okay.
Karen Fireman: And then, what.
Capstone Coach 1: What it does is it opens up a new tab.
Capstone Coach 1: Which is empty.
Capstone Coach 1: And, and this is actually another incident instance of Python running so you can have two programs running at the same time, so that other program that we're still there it's still running and then the first window, you can see it here.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, so it's like running in the background.
Karen Fireman: got it okay thanks.
Capstone Coach 1: But no, I can click here.
Capstone Coach 1: And I can get a new one, and I can run another Program.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So this this way I can find Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: This way, I can still get to see what what that other Program.
Capstone Coach 1: converges to you know what kind of solution it comes up.
Capstone Coach 1: With and here we can go ahead and.
Capstone Coach 1: Work on.
Capstone Coach 1: You know timeshares.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: OK.
Capstone Coach 1: So the first thing I want to point out here is line number 30 that is a new import that we haven't seen before, and you notice it says tensorflow charisse callbacks the callback is a special function and cares that lets you.
Capstone Coach 1: control how it handles optimization how it handles the conversions and there's a routine called early stopping you'll see I said import early stopping here, and what that does is that lets you give instructions to cares about.
Capstone Coach 1: when things are going slow or the it's converging or has converged to the right solution the give it permission to stop.
Capstone Coach 1: Otherwise it's going to go all you if you asked for 100 ad packs it's going to run all 100 ad packs, but if you set up an early stopping condition, it may stop at a pocket number 20.
Capstone Coach 1: It may stop there, early and you'll see an example here in a little bit of where i'm using this you can one of the conditions, you can set up for instances says that if the loss function doesn't change for 10 epochs stop.
Capstone Coach 1: You say and that's kind of interesting if it doesn't get smaller over 10 epochs stop.
Capstone Coach 1: It should be getting better not getting better syndication she may want to tweak the optimizer or maybe it means that you've found the best great solution.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, you also have a new function at the top here it's called convert to matrix that's what it does you send it a data array and you send it what's called a window size and then it converts the data into a proper tensor.
Capstone Coach 1: A proper tensor.
Capstone Coach 1: Now what is windows so long winded size is how much here, we will now we're done we're talking about traditional time series forecasting.
Capstone Coach 1: So we're looking at the stock prices with IBM, there are over 1000 stock prices for the last year or so and the window that we're talking about is how far back in that series, do you want to go in order to forecast what's coming next.
Capstone Coach 1: You can make that small if you don't think that the going back more than, say, a week is important than maybe the window size is one or seven if you have daily data, maybe it's seven.
Capstone Coach 1: And our case we have weekly data, so if you want to go back a month that would be four weeks, so the window size would be for.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, in this particular example i'm going to use a window size of 30 that's probably too much, but, and we can play with that we can see what what's going to happen here.
Capstone Coach 1: Alright, so let's go ahead and go down now, and you have two models in here, you have the model that we use last time nlp and i'm going to make this true will run this.
Capstone Coach 1: The nlp model is the otter aggressive.
Capstone Coach 1: model we create lags for the time series data one one week lag two week like three week lag and so forth, and then we use those as inputs to the network to do our forecasting now in our data if you if you scroll down a little bit you'll see this is going to be happening.
Capstone Coach 1: Actually scroll up.
Capstone Coach 1: If you look at line number 66.
Capstone Coach 1: You see that it says number of legs for i'm going to create four legs and you can see that i'm done that here X one X two X three x four.
Capstone Coach 1: And then I put them together in one using calm stack this is row by row right so NP calm stack says take X want to make it the first column next to the second column, and so forth.
Capstone Coach 1: spam.
Capstone Coach 1: And so the Z, then I basically becomes like a super for column input matrix where each column is the light one X one is the first leg.
Capstone Coach 1: Second lag and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: And since I have three four legs rather there will be at least one missing value in the first four observations right.
Capstone Coach 1: For the lag one column, only the first observation is going to be messing lag to Italy, the first two three first three like, for the first four values will be missing because we can't compute the fourth lag for OPS of those observations.
Capstone Coach 1: That makes sense, so if I want the first lag I can't do that until I get the observation to observation, one I don't have the data, before that, so I have to set the first leg for observation one equal to missing.
Capstone Coach 1: That Thun these functions that you see up here lags why 123 that's what they do, they all return I call them that's the same length the number of observations, but the initial values will be missing since we can't compute the legs for those guys.
Capstone Coach 1: These four columns then are put together into a major into an array or matrix.
Capstone Coach 1: And then I said X equal to that matrix but I chop off the first four rows that's why it says in legs colon comma colon basically says chop off the first portal four rows in and put the put the rest and X, so I am giving up the force first for observations in our time series.
Capstone Coach 1: Now why i'm going to do the same thing there i'm going to make sure that it's the same link it has the same number of values, as the number of rosen X, so why is you know it will in lags colon so forth, like that.
Kilani, Shadi: Dr Jones I have a quick question if you don't mind, sir.
Capstone Coach 1: Sure sure.
Kilani, Shadi: honey and you may have answered this one, they may have missed it, so I apologize if that's the case.
Kilani, Shadi: For the number of legs How did we decided having four.
Capstone Coach 1: Ideally, you would want to look at the auto correlation function.
Capstone Coach 1: The.
Capstone Coach 1: In your time series course i'm sure they talked about looking at the auto correlation starting with lag one two so forth, and so on, and what they would advise you is that.
Capstone Coach 1: The first few article relations are probably going to be significantly different from zero now they might be negative, they might be positive, but they're not zero.
Capstone Coach 1: And at some point, those auto correlation should taper off to go towards zero basically saying that if you go far enough, back in time, the observation that you see doesn't influence this one.
Capstone Coach 1: So, like in like in the IBM stock data I don't know what the magic number is i'm using for here, because that represents one month.
Capstone Coach 1: One month of data i'm thinking well if I go more than a month back, probably the actual number doesn't mean too much for the number, we have today, the most important thing, so the last four weeks, however.
Capstone Coach 1: You could you could try this you could do a trial and error here okay use for a week So what if we used a What if we use six you feel free to do that.
Capstone Coach 1: The more you're more labs you take in this case we're doing, for if I do eight you're going to chop eight weeks of data right so there's there's a little bit of a trade off here, and if you have a lot of data doesn't matter too much, but.
Capstone Coach 1: And we do have a good deal data.
Capstone Coach 1: Here, but so chopping off four weeks of data at the that's the oldest four weeks of data, not a big deal I probably could have gone to eight even more fell on it.
Capstone Coach 1: Now that's going to happen is if those weeks if those legs don't matter so let's say that week six lag does not matter than the weights in the neural network for that week will be soon we will go to zero, or nearly so.
Capstone Coach 1: Great question.
Kilani, Shadi: Thank you that's based on diagnostics basically.
Kilani, Shadi: matter.
Kilani, Shadi: But I just had another question, what about seasonality effects or Is that not an issue when you're doing neural networks.
Capstone Coach 1: All it is it so seasonality can always be an issue, and I think again, if you look at the chart you'll you'll be looking for that.
Capstone Coach 1: By knowing what the data is a, for example in the case of IBM till they get did that then set a certain point, and the but in this in the year I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: about you and want to find out whether there are some cycles.
Capstone Coach 1: They take say that utility stocks always are always cyclical and I don't know I don't know what that means, maybe, that means the first quarter is down in the fourth quarter is up I don't know something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you do have seasonality seasonality, then you would want to do the same thing that you ordinarily do in a time series which is use different saying, for example.
Capstone Coach 1: If you know that there's a monthly cycle, or you might want to take a four week differences.
Capstone Coach 1: You might want to determine the data for a smooth curve to it and look at differences from that all sorts of different things that you can do to see it to normalize the data, but that that's why you have an entire course on this subject.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're doing this approach, though, however it's largely non parametric can you just throw everything in there and try it and see once which one comes to give you the best results.
Kilani, Shadi: Thank you, Sir.
Capstone Coach 1: Good good question yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: alright.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: Now we did this one last time at this nlp solution, and in fact that was your week 12 assignment was to use this code that you see here for nlp.
Capstone Coach 1: think it was almost identical to this and then to try different things like adding the regularization are taken out of regularization how about changing the optimizer here that's a good one, usually you'll get big differences there.
Capstone Coach 1: Those sort of things, maybe changing the number of perceptions that are in the network, here we have 20.
Capstone Coach 1: In one more hidden layer midweek little more or less you know the you'll get a different solution or maybe better maybe not so here we'll 550 box and four wow okay hit run.
Capstone Coach 1: And let's see what I get here, this should be quick, I think this is a quick one because.
Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: well.
Karen Fireman: that's good question it's Karen.
Capstone Coach 1: Something something didn't go right here.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see hang on So this is the other one still run.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah that's running okay Karen go ahead.
Karen Fireman: If you're in the middle of trying to fix this but I was gonna say since we're talking about what we were doing added another layer in line and it needed flatline the projection um I didn't know why.
Karen Fireman: I wondered if there was some obvious reason that would have happened, I mean there's one of my things I tried I.
Capstone Coach 1: tried, what do you are you referring to this program.
Karen Fireman: No, no, the one from from the homework which, which turned out payments this program but yeah.
Karen Fireman: yeah so something commented out and I tried to add it back in um I think it was the thought it was like another layer, I think it was layer two, and when I added it back in and commented that will.
Swanson J, Charles: change the name of the layer
Karen Fireman: No did I need to.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh yeah.
Karen Fireman: Oh gotcha Okay, thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah that's.
Capstone Coach 1: that's one of those no nose.
Capstone Coach 1: So the the charisse uses the name of that you see like a hidden one and output it when you get and that's okay now when you hit summary right here.
Capstone Coach 1: It uses those names to create that that fancy table that describes what the network looks like and so without those names that complains and stuff and shuts down basically.
Karen Fireman: Only did okay i'll try.
Capstone Coach 1: But that's that's a good one i've done that so many times I you know I cut and paste a layer right put it in there, forget to change the name turn it on boom it'll it'll go South now this error that i'm getting right here.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, this is another one of those kind of mistakes it's looking for the data file and I didn't download the data file.
Capstone Coach 1: You may already see where's it reading the data file.
Swanson J, Charles: it's from last week we just come.
Capstone Coach 1: out line number 56 you need to you need to find this file right here, IBM weekly price stocks csv.
Capstone Coach 1: And it is from Edison week 12 I think.
Capstone Coach 1: That file.
Capstone Coach 1: should be in week 12 and so, if I go this is in, week 13 i'm going to back up and go to week 12 right here.
Capstone Coach 1: And there it is right there so that's the file I needed to download you may already have it downloaded so.
Capstone Coach 1: that's fine.
Capstone Coach 1: And I just need to move it over.
Capstone Coach 1: You into the area where my program is located right here.
Capstone Coach 1: copy.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: paste right in here.
Capstone Coach 1: Week 13.
Capstone Coach 1: We go.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, going back.
Capstone Coach 1: here.
Capstone Coach 1: This time I had run it should work there, we go.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: This one I turned the the output is not verbose is set to zero, so, if you look in the code.
Capstone Coach 1: On the fit area, you see, where it says model fit, there is a verbose option I set that to zero because it's just ripping on the you know, through this.
Capstone Coach 1: And here's what I got out from the fit the the square root of ASC is 1.00212 the red dots are the forecasts are the ansari there the predicted values and the blue is the actual and so you can see that we are there are a meter squared error is not zero.
Capstone Coach 1: The red dots are not exactly on top of the blue, but, honestly, is this doing this actually very good fit.
Capstone Coach 1: The msc of one says that i'm i'm forecasting within about plus or minus $2.
Capstone Coach 1: And the sales price here is is 100.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah 100 and some dollars and 35.
Capstone Coach 1: actually took the log so so that.
Capstone Coach 1: The log actually improved the forecasts, a bit.
Capstone Coach 1: And you can see up here, where I took right here is where i'm doing the log line 72 and 73 taking the log of the X and the y values, using the non P log function.
Capstone Coach 1: pretty easy to do so that's that's what we get if we use nlp, this is a otter aggressive model of order for, so this is a fourth order otter aggressive model if we go back further than for ar we might get a little bit of an improvement, but I, you know, maybe.
Capstone Coach 1: If you have seasonality let's say it's a monthly thing then you probably want to go ar for ar ar.
Capstone Coach 1: ar you know 1216 you know that kind of thing and actually bring those in as inputs, so I would have a legs 1234 and then i'd have a leg eight like 12 like 16 that kind of thing.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the weights will be set to zero if those legs are not important and that's fine let's go to.
Capstone Coach 1: we're still oh we're almost done it says epoch i'm on this is going back to the other console and.
Capstone Coach 1: Here we go so we're not we're not going to get perfect fit here.
Capstone Coach 1: The training accuracy is sitting at about 99.85%, which is good validation accuracy 99.1%.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: So the accuracy on this is pretty good we're using now, this is the solution that uses convolution married with.
Capstone Coach 1: rnn.
Capstone Coach 1: And there, there comes out, so we have 100 misclassification is in the training data and 90 in the validation data, so it looks like we're actually doing worse than we did before.
Capstone Coach 1: I think it was we had about 156 total now we're we're sitting at 190 what's interesting here, though, is the misclassification in the trainee bit is actually higher than it is in the validation data.
Capstone Coach 1: That you don't see that happen every day.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah plots kind of look okay.
Capstone Coach 1: that's what happened when we added all those neurons so we have.
Capstone Coach 1: Instead of fitting with the 200 I think it was 256 we are now sitting with what.
Capstone Coach 1: let's say.
Capstone Coach 1: Women.
Capstone Coach 1: In my others oh i'm in the different program yeah.
Swanson J, Charles: Yes, this is it.
Capstone Coach 1: This is, this is it Okay, thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah we we jacked up to 512 and the rnn part and then an additional 100 and really it made things worse, so this is not worth it right.
Capstone Coach 1: We did we did that some regularization and maybe that contributed to it as well, but it certainly seems that we don't need to have we're not benefiting from all those extra neurons that we're putting in there, so we probably cut back on and be happy with what we had.
Capstone Coach 1: But you have you ever get the idea, though it's just lot of this is just trial and error.
Capstone Coach 1: We do work it that way.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay let's go back to the time serious now let's cure.
Capstone Coach 1: and go back to that code well that's not it oh yeah you said.
Capstone Coach 1: No.
Capstone Coach 1: This is it yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: So let's let's turn it turn the nlp model from true why wouldn't leave it is true, this thing runs pretty fast right it took point four minutes to run that let's go to rnn and see what's different on there so there's second model is the rnn model and we're going to make this true.
Capstone Coach 1: like that.
Capstone Coach 1: And let's see what's different well there's quite a bit going on here actually there's a lot of gymnastics involved in the front part and these gymnastics you see now, this is lions basically from the start of the rnn code to down to about line number 144.
Capstone Coach 1: You can see there is some reshaping going on.
Capstone Coach 1: That.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, is designed to get the data into the format that rnn likes to see.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: What happened let's see what happened here, so the training and the validation data they're coming in, as one long vector it was an x.
Capstone Coach 1: What what what I did was I took I set the number Now this is somewhat arbitrary I said the, the number of validation points is 30 that's what I use 30 now that's what.
Capstone Coach 1: A little less than six months.
Capstone Coach 1: of data for validation and then the training will be all else, so I took the tail end of the data, basically, the last 30 weeks that are in the data.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm going to call that the validation data now, we could change that we could change, maybe the total number of weeks here is like a 1118 or one on one for.
Capstone Coach 1: A little over 1000 so maybe you know 10% would be 120% will be 200 right so maybe we want to do 200 or something like that, but I took 30.
Capstone Coach 1: And set that, as my the number of validation points i'm going to use, and I also decided to set the window size to 30 and now that's.
Capstone Coach 1: How far back i'm willing to go and i'm going to go back to 30 weeks and use the previous 30 weeks data to forecast so next you months the next week's data, right now, this is necessary because.
Capstone Coach 1: Already rnn remember is cycling back how long did you do, the last time well in this case it's not only the last time, the last 30 weeks.
Capstone Coach 1: How well, did you do so, it retains that information in the in the analysis in the in the optimization and.
Capstone Coach 1: If you don't set that that it's going to try to ring to remain retain all of the data, and if you have thousands of data points that could then cause the computer to basically really go out to lunch.
Capstone Coach 1: So you ordinarily you set the one decides to something smaller than all of the data something more reasonable, but this is.
Capstone Coach 1: there's no clear guidelines on how to do this, and this data data dependent so it's something that when you get this solution, you may want to tweak it a bit you might want to change the window size and make it smaller make it larger and see how much that affects the solution.
Capstone Coach 1: The the code, you see here the first few lines it's just basically setting up the numbers to make sure they're they're in the right shape and, as I said, do you want the first column, to be the the time sequence in the second column or the columns after that to be the data.
Capstone Coach 1: Our rnn does allow multi dimensional inputs, so you can have one target vector and then you can also have additional X values that are used to help forecast that target factor.
Capstone Coach 1: it's still going to use the legs on the target factor to help forecast what's coming next, but if you have other data that you don't want to lag.
Capstone Coach 1: These this would be let's say the actual numbers related to something else, like these, this data, the Dow Jones average, for example.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're predicting stock prices it's usually a good idea to include that and maybe from yesterday, maybe today, but most likely from yesterday but.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah So here we were setting up three layers the first layer is always the rnn layer right that's the one that you would feed that it doesn't have to be the one of the first layer
Capstone Coach 1: But normally that that's the easiest thing to do, because you can prepare the the setup the dimensions of the data properly for all of the data coming into that aren't in layer
Capstone Coach 1: After the rnn layer the format of the data is going to be the same, that is ordinarily used by nlp which means is basically one big vector and.
Capstone Coach 1: You can see here that I did what I did was after the rnn layer I put in a dense layer of 10% fronts, and then the output is just one because i'm forecasting the single number, which is stock price for tomorrow for the next week.
Capstone Coach 1: we're not doing classification here we're just forecasting a single number for next week.
Capstone Coach 1: You can use organization, it sets a nun here and the activation on the output side is always none if you're not using classification, the only time it's not none is when you're doing binary classification or categorical classification, in which case it's going to be sigmoid or soft Max.
Capstone Coach 1: So, setting up the output layer so it's pretty.
Capstone Coach 1: Not many options there and you'll get some rude messages if it's if you deviate from what's expected.
Capstone Coach 1: The intermediate layers the hidden layers, on the other hand, well, you of course you have to give them names.
Capstone Coach 1: But the activation could be Arielle you were could be 10 H or sigmoid even if you wanted to try that.
Capstone Coach 1: If you change the activation normally you don't get a big change in the forecast, so I reserve that for the tail end of the job and other words.
Capstone Coach 1: And the beginning of fitting a network like this year you go after the things that make a big difference, one of them being the optimists optimizer that you using.
Capstone Coach 1: And the other would be like the number of perceptions, that you have and whether you have an intermediate layer or just one single layer
Capstone Coach 1: Here we have one in intermediate layer
Capstone Coach 1: So this is a three layer network rnn first and then we have an LP after that.
Capstone Coach 1: We have to optimize users that were being used here at them and add a delta and they also usually is an improvement over at them, but they're.
Capstone Coach 1: very similar very close to each other at a delta is extremely sensitive to the learning rate yeah you can change this to be let's say seven or eight.
Capstone Coach 1: And you can drive it all the way down to like point 0001 and usually at those extremes you'll see a very bad fit and instead of getting the Nice red lines lay in over the blue you'll get a solid line of red, although straight across the the diagram doesn't do well.
Capstone Coach 1: So i'm going to turn this on and and let's see what happens here.
Capstone Coach 1: I think already set that to true So here we go.
Capstone Coach 1: Wait oh yeah so we're gonna i'm decided to just rerun the first nlp solution it's already done and now we're starting off with the rnn solution coming up here.
Capstone Coach 1: And one of the things that you will see in the er and in solution is.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see where is it.
Capstone Coach 1: Here, this in the fifth and the model fits statements you'll see callbacks equal to early stopping monitor vow loss patients 10 okay what this says it says, for I want you to monitor the data for early stopping.
Capstone Coach 1: And particular I want you to look at dollar loss, now that you can see in the output here.
Capstone Coach 1: it's the value loss is one of the numbers that that appears in the output, if you have verbose equal to one or two they'll see dollar loss coming out you I could have said valley messy.
Capstone Coach 1: However, notices same thing in this case because it's a regression problem that loss and balance messy or the same thing, so this is the main squared error or we used to call it ase and.
Capstone Coach 1: SAS, and this would be the validation ase.
Capstone Coach 1: Then, on the left hand side you have loss and msc this is for the training data.
Capstone Coach 1: And so what this is saying it says, if you notice that the valve loss does not change for 10 epochs.
Capstone Coach 1: It doesn't go down much for 10 years and I don't know what they mean by much look closer at the documentation.
Capstone Coach 1: But i'm going to give you 10 a box and if it doesn't really go down much over those 10 a box shut down stop notice in this case the output yeah I actually made it to the park 100, which means that this condition did not occur.
Capstone Coach 1: The validation loss apparently was was changing.
Capstone Coach 1: Over those 10 over each set of 10, and so it didn't see that condition come up, so it traveled and continued on to epoch number 100.
Capstone Coach 1: Since this was running pretty quickly, the whole thing ran in three tenths of a minute it doesn't much matter anyway.
Capstone Coach 1: But this condition the early stopping condition is very helpful if you have a situation where things are not running that fast right so.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, there we go now let's see did this do any better than the other solution well let's see the square root of the afc is 1.00202 you see the number right here.
Capstone Coach 1: that's the criteria that we normally use to decide who is the winner and now, if you look at the previous solution, what is the value there 1.0 or 212, so I think it's a tie.
Capstone Coach 1: I think it's a tie, but I prefer to use the rnn solution because normally you have better protection there against.
Capstone Coach 1: overfitting overfitting because it's using the previous result to adjust the results so it's going to make it's going to try to do well there and not over fit the data.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, if you look at the actual red dots you can see it doesn't fall exactly on the blue lines, but I would say, I would say that this is very reasonable.
Capstone Coach 1: forecasts that you're seeing here it's not going to high it's not going to low I don't see like a forecast down in the blue, and the one that this these big white zones, you see there I don't see any podcasts going out there now.
Capstone Coach 1: If you look on the far right hand side you see this little end here that's the validation data right the last 30 points, right here.
Capstone Coach 1: So maybe we should have done a little validation going back further see how well we really did in here, so let me go do that on school into the code and let's go to the value it says windows went no invalid invalidation here Okay, what the heck let's make it 300.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay let's make a 300 the window size, so we can keep that at 38 does that's that's okay.
Capstone Coach 1: I just saying I go back 33 oh wait a minute let's make it 60 just for the heck of it okay Now let me blow this code may blow up on the I don't know I haven't tried these.
Capstone Coach 1: So we're going to make invalidation 300 we're going to make the one decide 60 and we're going to cross your fingers and hit go and see what happens okay there's go.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so far, so good, no, no red lights coming on nothing saying Oh well, yeah oh wait a minute i'm running the other code, first the other solution.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, the emotional piece Russia or here goes before we wrap up boom there it is okay well, what do you think the ASC 00171 Okay, what do you think Charles are you here yeah you're here.
Capstone Coach 1: I can always count on you.
Swanson J, Charles: i'm here, but it kind of looks worse to me.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah in some respects, if you look at the dots they seem to be further away from the blue line okay.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah well, then why is the ASC the square where the sc smaller.
Swanson J, Charles: It looks like it's exactly a lag of the.
Swanson J, Charles: Of the POP.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah.
Karen Fireman: The data at the end, the validation data that's really close to that line what's the deal with that on the right.
Capstone Coach 1: here.
Karen Fireman: Over there let's kind of good.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah, this is actually pretty pretty that's pretty pretty good, but I think was Charles was thinking about is right in here.
Capstone Coach 1: But that's the silly area as a matter of fact, if you look at the forecast over this period, right here, where they're going up the almost all of the red points are below the line below the blue.
Swanson J, Charles: yeah it seems solanas there isn't a trend and say the price is holding steady well it's predicting it because it's just taking a lag.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah yeah.
Karen Fireman: He said turn coven.
Capstone Coach 1: What you know.
Capstone Coach 1: For sure the mathematically they se is smaller.
Capstone Coach 1: You get one one or two verses 1017 it's a little bit small little bit difference, but not of course it's not enough to to.
Capstone Coach 1: really get excited about.
Capstone Coach 1: I would think maybe we can make this better let's let's look at this again and think about how we could make this fit better even still more, better than this.
Capstone Coach 1: What do you think.
Swanson J, Charles: Any suggestions give it a try i'm.
Karen Fireman: wondering something i'm go back to your validation at the end there, why is the actual just a straight line, as well as the mean is that a little weird for the stock price to just stay at one level just totally straight on that blue line is that does it make sense.
Karen Fireman: Your last data points or whatever they are bunch of data points.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, is it is, it does look a bizarre because if you look at the other.
Karen Fireman: And not straight yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: If you look at the other plot it's so there's there's something going on here, I think the.
Capstone Coach 1: Think what is it is it just ignoring the end of the end of the data and forecasting is flat that's what that what that you know, I have to look into this, but it does look like for some weirdness going on here at the end.
Capstone Coach 1: That blue line is not the data.
Capstone Coach 1: that's what i'm thinking right.
Karen Fireman: Now yeah it's bothering me.
yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, it could be the plot routine I don't know but there's something bizarre about that.
Capstone Coach 1: And there's something bizarre about this number right here being better considering what you can like Charles was saying, I don't think so.
Capstone Coach 1: Then look that good.
Capstone Coach 1: But what I would probably do is say well let's instead of using a window size of 30 let's use one decide let's make it smaller than 30 We made it bigger so let's let's go to.
Capstone Coach 1: For a 16 which would be for you know, four months right.
Capstone Coach 1: For this, for 16 four months of data and let's try it again and see what happens I think if you make the window too big, then it doesn't respond to the ups and the Downs as well.
Capstone Coach 1: But that's My guess would say here.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Well that's interesting Okay, so I made you all we did there was make the window from 60 down to 16 very small and so now the red curve is more as smooth right it looks like it's more of a smooth solution to the forecast problem.
Capstone Coach 1: But actually for.
Capstone Coach 1: This is not a bad thing, because many times those ups and downs are just.
Capstone Coach 1: really big daily swings right, so this might actually be a reasonable, if you look at the the average squared error it's pretty close to the other values, a little bit higher.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: Obviously the if you change the window size.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see 2320 if you change the window size you're going to get quite a bit different picture of the club, the forecast and the predictive values.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: I would think that smooth one actually might be more appealing to people.
Capstone Coach 1: Because you this, these are weekly.
Capstone Coach 1: values and it's pretty hard to.
Capstone Coach 1: Actually guesstimate what through there Okay, this is also somewhat smooth not quite as much but.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah it's it's not responding as well to the the the really issues like here there's this huge drop and it it tried to follow that but it didn't respond to that.
Capstone Coach 1: As deeply as you might or might have wanted, but looking over in here where it's wiggling around and trying to decide whether to go up or down finally decided to go down this is not bad behavior I think.
Swanson J, Charles: i'm Dr Jones when I drop the window size down to five.
Swanson J, Charles: The.
Swanson J, Charles: AC or the square root got really small.
mm.
Capstone Coach 1: hmm.
Swanson J, Charles: It got down to 1.00123.
Capstone Coach 1: I see okay yeah anyway so obviously the one size is going to affect things if you make it large you're going to get more of jumping around, I guess, and the smaller, it is the smoother it's going to be, and then the invalidation here.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm not sure what's going on with that, but the end of the curve here so.
anyway.
Swanson J, Charles: Dr Johnson when I cut the window size down to five that straight line went away and so like when I had the window size 30 there's a straight line at the end of the hour.
Swanson J, Charles: But.
Capstone Coach 1: Well i'm gonna run now you got a cure.
Karen Fireman: Think what it's I think what it's doing is it's assuming that the.
Karen Fireman: Data would be straight out from the thing and then it's doing its predictions and comparison when you cut it down from 30 to five now you don't see it because you're on 30 of them there's only five of them.
Karen Fireman: it's not very visible when it's still just assuming it equals the last I mean isn't that the assumption of the random walk that the next invalid next value is the same as last value that's random walk assumption.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, this is what you see this is with a window of five I like this.
Capstone Coach 1: Right right that's pretty cool and here you can see it actually did respond very well to that.
Capstone Coach 1: That big drop that you see here and over here as well, that's good I like five.
Capstone Coach 1: and going back to become it and most time series software, the forecasts beyond the data or flat.
Capstone Coach 1: They they're usually they usually because the the assumption in a time series is that it's.
Capstone Coach 1: heterogeneous, which means that, on the long term it's gonna it's it's just up noise around an average right.
Capstone Coach 1: So we took time series course they said, well, one of the assumptions you're making an arena model is that the long term average the static.
Capstone Coach 1: it's not changing it's not going up continuously are going down continuously it's you know it's it's.
Capstone Coach 1: it's static and so that assumption means that drives this the end of the curve production predictions will be flat and that's true of all remote software.
Capstone Coach 1: Unless you incorporate things like seasonality, or you allow the software to adjust for trends, but if you're looking at a straight a remodel the forecast off the end of the series is always just a flat static.
Capstone Coach 1: Because that's what's required for the assumptions.
Capstone Coach 1: However, this kind of thing it doesn't know anything about arena it's just all we're doing here is checking the data as it is and then train the computer to bed best as it can react to that data up or down.
Capstone Coach 1: And I can, I think this is, I like this solution here, and we might might want to tweak the number of perceptions, or even the tell you what she really needed to look at is the.
Capstone Coach 1: optimization the optimizer square Oh, here we go yeah so watch what's going to happen here's right now the way this is working is it's using a Adam Adam delta right and we've set the learning rate at waco one watch what happens if I change this to say 5.0 like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh.
Capstone Coach 1: By the way, that's that optimize your set of 5.0 in some data, this is a good solution, the Ad a delta will work better with the high number like this and the small number.
Capstone Coach 1: And now it's kicking in bones see that not good, so the red dots are all below the green the blue lines and that's because we set the learning rate to a very high value now if I said it to a really small body let's say point 0001 like that OK, and now run it again.
Capstone Coach 1: You see what's going to happen here.
Capstone Coach 1: Ah, no that's no that's the other one.
Capstone Coach 1: This is funny.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Swanson J, Charles: it's not learning anything.
Capstone Coach 1: This is really bad as.
Capstone Coach 1: You can see there you go.
Capstone Coach 1: I think we can do better than that yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: How did this happen.
Capstone Coach 1: You know how could you look at the ESC up here the square root of the SS huge dumber ridiculous.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you see this stuff coming out yeah you need to switch on optimizer so say well okay so much RAD adele that I tried a big number, I tried, a small number they both crap so let's try Adam.
Capstone Coach 1: see what happens with Adam Adam I got a point oh 1am I trade oh one with that a delta gotta be a bad.
Capstone Coach 1: bad solution so let's see what we get here.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, this is a little more reasonable a lot more reasonable.
Capstone Coach 1: There we go.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh okay actually i'm not bad at all.
Capstone Coach 1: 1.013 sides, one of the better better examples, and we do have some cases here we're above the blue, but then we have an equal number of more or less score below the below so that kind of added average out, I suppose that's bad okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Well that's about it for tonight folks.
Capstone Coach 1: we're will be ending officially a little early, but if you have questions that you want to sit here and chat with me about that's fine some of you may want to ask questions about your project or other things like where to find a beer in the city Center.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't know I do know there's some places across the way that we've gone to other classes said con to.
Capstone Coach 1: Would we did graduation before so okay.
Capstone Coach 1: that's it for tonight, thank you very much, and she whoever's doing the recording you can stop the recording.
Capstone Coach 1: This what goes on next is off the record.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah.
Swanson J, Charles: Thank you, Dr Jones good night.
Capstone Coach 1: good night, no.
Kilani, Shadi: Thank you, Dr Jones great classes.
Karen Fireman: yeah it is great, I would like to save.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay sure.
Karen Fireman: Thank you um the thing I was going to ask you is to go back what I was starting to ask before where you said I had to put in the.
Karen Fireman: name of the layer
Capstone Coach 1: The layer oh you mean which.
Karen Fireman: Is in the one that we did for homework this that we turned in, and I know what.
Karen Fireman: I know, Charles said that I didn't name the layer but I thought the layer was already named.